[DOCS] Create rule updates - 7.10 (#336)
elastic/security-docs: docs/detections/rules-ui-create.asciidoc

** Run and create alerts if existing anomaly scores above the defined threshold
are discovered.
** Issue an error stating the {ml} job was not running when the rule executed.
* <<create-threshold-rule, *Threshold rules*>>: Searches the defined indices and creates a detections alert
when the number of times the specified field's value meets the threshold during
a single execution. When multiple values meet the threshold, an alert is
generated for each value.
+
For example, if the threshold `field` is `source.ip` and its `value` is `10`, an
alert is generated for every source IP address that appears in at least 10 of
the rule's search results.
* <<create-eql-rule, *Event correlation*>>: Searches the defined indices and creates an alert when results match an
{ref}/eql.html[Event Query Language (EQL)] query.
* <<create-indicator-rule, *Indicator match*>>: Creates an alert when {es-sec} index field values match

> field values defined in the specified threat indices. For example, you

Reviewer: I noticed that there is mention of `threat indices` throughout this doc but the UI calls them `indicator index patterns`. I know these changes were last minute and you all have already made updates related to indicator match rules, but It might be better to have the docs match the terminology in the UI in this case also.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/616158/98721224-b70e5580-235e-11eb-8bf8-947dce587f15.png)

can create a threat index for IP addresses and use this index to create an alert
whenever an event's `destination.ip` equals a value in the index. Threat index
field mappings should be {ecs-ref}[ECS-compliant]. For information on creating
{es} indices and field types, see
{ref}/getting-started-index.html[Index some documents],
{ref}/indices-create-index.html[Create index API] and
{ref}/mapping-types.html[Field data types].

When creating or modifying rules, you can add exceptions that prevent a rule from generating an alert even when its criteria are met. This is useful for reducing noise, such as preventing alerts from trusted processes and internal IP addresses. <<detections-ui-exceptions>> describes how to add exceptions to a rule.

> NOTE: You can add exceptions to custom query, EQL, and indicator match rule types.

Reviewer 2: Event correlation instead of EQL here?

```suggestion
NOTE: You can add exceptions to custom query, event correlation, and indicator match rule types.
```

> If you are creating a custom query, threshold, or EQL rule, you can preview the rule beforehand to see what kind of results you can expect. See <<preview-rules, Preview your rule>> in this topic for more information.

Reviewer 2: Event correlation instead of EQL here?

```suggestion
If you are creating a custom query, threshold, or event correlation rule, you can preview the rule beforehand to see what kind of results you can expect. See <<preview-rules, Preview your rule>> in this topic for more information.
```

For example, if the threshold `field` is `source.ip` and its `value` is `10`, an
alert is generated for every source IP address that appears in at least 10 of
the rule's search results.

> * *Event correlation*: Searches the defined indices and creates an alert when results match an

Reviewer: Is there any way we could link add a link here to the section where we walk through details on how to create a rule of this type? Essentially a short cut. If the user wants to create an Event Correlation rule they could click on this link and it would take them to the rule creation details and example.

and then:
.. Define which {es} indices the rule analyzes for alerts.
.. Use the filter and query fields to create the criteria used for detecting
alerts.
.. Use the `Field` and `Threshold` fields to determine which source event field
is used as a threshold and the threshold's value.
+
For example, if the `Field` is `source.ip` and its `Threshold` is `10`, an
alert is generated for every source IP address that appears in at least 10 of
the rule's search results.
+
You can also leave the `Field` undefined. The rule then creates an alert when
the number of search results is equal to or greater than the `Threshold` value.
+
If you want an alert for 10 or more failed login attempts to a specific host
per rule execution, enter the following rule parameters:

** *Custom query*: `host.name : liv-win-19 and event.category : "authentication" and event.outcome : "failure"`
** *Field*: Leave blank
** *Threshold*: `10`

* To create an event correlation rule using Event Query Language, select *Event Correlation* and then:
.. Define which {es} indices the rule searches for alerts.
.. Add an {ref}/eql-syntax.html[EQL statement] used to detect alerts.

> For example, the following rule detects when `msxsl.exe` makes an outbound

Reviewer: The indentation of this section appears to be a bit off.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/616158/97877890-db798a80-1ceb-11eb-9fed-95dace7a4954.png)

the {es-sec} event indices. For example, if you only need to check
`destination.ip` event values, add `destination.ip : *`.
+
TIP: If you want the rule to check every field in the indices, use this
wildcard expression: `*:*`.
.. *Threat index patterns*: The threat indices containing field values for which
you want to generate alerts.
.. *Threat index query*: The query and filters used to filter the fields from
the threat indices.
.. *Threat Mapping*: Compares the values of the specified event and threat field
values. When the field values are identical, an alert is generated. To define
which field values are compared from the indices:
** *Field*: The field used for comparing values in the {es-sec} event
indices.
** *Threat index field*: The field used for comparing values in the threat
indices.
.. You can add `AND` and `OR` clauses to define when alerts are generated.
+
For example, to create a rule that generates alerts when `host.name` *and*
`destination.ip` field values in the `logs-*` or `packetbeat-*` {es-sec} indices
are identical to the corresponding field values in the `ip-threat-list` threat
index, enter the rule parameters seen in the following image:

> +

Reviewer: Relaying a suggestion from @aarju here. 
> It would also help a lot if there was an example of how to format an index to be used as a threat index. For example, if I have a list of 10 domains and their IP addresses that I want to monitor, how do I add those to Elastic to be used as a thread index

Author: @peluja1012 I think this is a good idea, but I probably won't have time to incorporate it before tomorrow unless it's a simple process. This might be best as a separate topic since this one is already pretty long as is. WDYT?

Reviewer: I think it makes sense to include it a separate topic. We could link to it from this page. 👍

<<volume-shadow-copy-deletion-via-vssadmin, Volume Shadow Copy Deletion via VssAdmin>> prebuilt rule.

[discrete]
[[create-threshold-rule]]
==== Create threshold rule
* To create a rule based on a source event field threshold, select *Threshold*
and then:
.. Define which {es} indices the rule analyzes for alerts.
.. Use the filter and query fields to create the criteria used for detecting
alerts.
.. Use the `Field` and `Threshold` fields to determine which source event field
is used as a threshold and the threshold's value.
+
For example, if the `Field` is `source.ip` and its `Threshold` is `10`, an
alert is generated for every source IP address that appears in at least 10 of
the rule's search results.
+
You can also leave the `Field` undefined. The rule then creates an alert when
the number of search results is equal to or greater than the `Threshold` value.
+
If you want an alert for 10 or more failed login attempts to a specific host
per rule execution, enter the following rule parameters:

** *Custom query*: `host.name : liv-win-19 and event.category : "authentication" and event.outcome : "failure"`
** *Field*: Leave blank
** *Threshold*: `10`

[discrete]
[[create-eql-rule]]

> ==== Create EQL rule

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
==== Create event correlation rule
```

in Timeline, Timeline query values are replaced with their corresponding alert
field values.
+
. Click *Continue*. The *About rule* pane is displayed.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/about-rule-pane.png[]
+
. Continue with <<preview-rules, previewing the rule>> (optional) or <<rule-ui-basic-params, configuring basic rule settings>>.

[discrete]
[[preview-rules]]
=== Preview your rule (optional)

You can preview a custom query, threshold, or EQL (Event Correlation) rule to get feedback on how noisy the rule will be before submitting it. This allows you to fine-tune the query, if needed, to reduce the amount of alerts that may come in.

To preview a rule:

. Write the rule query.
+
. Select a timeframe of data to preview query results -- `Last hour`, `Last day`, or `Last month` -- from the *Quick query preview* drop-down.
+
. Click *Preview results*. A histogram shows the number of alerts you can expect based on the defined rule parameters and historical events in your indices.

A "noise warning" is displayed if the preview generates more than alert per hour.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/preview-rule.png[]

> NOTE: The preview shows a maximum number of 100 results and excludes effects of rule exceptions and timestamp overrides.

Reviewer 2: I don't believe the preview is locked to 100 results (at least for the custom query and threshold rule):

##### Custom Query
<p align="center">
  <img width="500" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2946766/98740047-a4e4e500-2367-11eb-8788-1a88544f6fc1.png" />
</p>

##### Threshold
<p align="center">
  <img width="500" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2946766/98740267-fb522380-2367-11eb-82b9-9480fa25d666.png" />
</p>

Reviewer 2: Okie, so just verified with @yctercero that the 100 result cap is specific to Event Correlation rules, not the others.

* Continue with <<rule-notifications>>.
* Create the rule (with or without activation).

[discrete]
[[preview-rules]]
=== Preview your rule (optional)

You can preview a custom query, threshold, or EQL (Event Correlation) rule to get feedback on how noisy the rule will be before submitting it. This allows you to fine-tune the query, if needed, to reduce the amount of alerts that may come in.

To preview a rule:

. Write the rule query.
+

> . Select a timeframe of data to preview query results -- `Last hour` or `Last day` -- from the *Quick query preview* drop-down.

Reviewer: Note that the `Last month` option is also available in the Preview section for `Custom Query` and `Threshold` rules.

+

> . Click *Preview results*. A histogram shows the number of events you can expect based on the defined rule parameters and historical events in your indices.

Reviewer: The histogram shows the number of "alerts" a user can expect. I think `number of events` in this case might be too general.
